---
templateKey: blog-post
title: LARGE WHITE BOX
date: '2018-08-06T17:46:11-07:00'
thumbnail: /img/largewhitebox.jpg
description: >-
  Our story takes place in a rather meaningless town called Mondane. A town that
  always seemed to have a tinge of grey to it. But there is something unique
  about this town.  He just doesn't realize it yet.
tags:
  - book one
---
Our story takes place in a rather meaningless town called Mondane. A town that always seemed to have a tinge of grey to it. This wasn’t a town where color did not exist; instead, it was a town that chose not to let color exist. It was almost as if the town was always covered by clouds. The walls of the buildings were grey, the roads a deep dark grey, the houses a shade darker than white. The lack of color throughout the town of Mondane resembled the city’s inhabitants. The citizens of Mondane are a peculiar bunch. They like to keep to themselves. You are hard pressed to ever see two people talk to each other in public, and if you did, it was a common consensus that you turned away because one shouldn’t be meddling in anyone's business. At least, that’s what Mrs.Olive taught her son. Mrs.Olive taught her son a lot of things, or should we say tried to teach him a lot of things.

<br />

Mrs.Olive homeschooled her son, Ray. Every kid in Mondane was homeschooled since the town does not have a school of any kind. Beginning at the age of 5, every child was mailed a Book of Education. A book distributed by the town of Mondane to educate their children for the next 11 years. It contains the subject matter, the homework, and the answers to the homework for the grades K - 12. The day the book arrived in the mail, Ray had been looking out the window from of living room for a solid 45 minutes. Not looking at anything in particular, just gazing out and hoping something interesting would happen. He got excited when cars passed by his house, but no car had passed as of yet. It was a hot day as most days are in Mondane. The fan was blowing thick, hot air at right into Ray's face, but it was better than nothing. His hair waved back and forth in front of his eyes, which entertained him for a bit. While looking at his dark black hair swing slowly from side to side less than an inch away from his own eyes, he didn’t notice the grey van pull up in front of his house’s mailbox. He finally saw the van when the sound of the mailbox opening startled him. It was the mailman in his light grey uniform with long white socks and dark grey hat. The man was portly, and the bottom three buttons of his shirt were ready to blast off at dangerous speeds if he decided to make a sudden gesture. “The mailman is here!” Ray belted out to his mom who was making sandwiches for lunch in the kitchen. “Mom! The mailman is here!” This time, yelling in the direction of the kitchen, but still maintaining sight on the mailman. Ray heard his mom let out a sigh that sounded as if she were in some sort of physical pain. He ignored her. Up until then, he could only remember the mailman coming to his house two other times. The mailman walked towards the van and opened the sliding passenger door. It got stuck less than halfway open, but after a couple of jerks, the door opened the whole way. Inside the van, you could see three or four large white boxes of the same size. The mailman lazily leaned over one of the boxes to read the label. He pushed it to the side forcefully and angrily. Couldn’t blame him, it was hot out, and any sensible human would have been just as mad working in that heat. He leaned over another box and read its label. Leaning off the box, he crouches down a bit and bear hugged it out of the van, knocking over one of the white boxes onto the street. He looked behind to see the damage, but continued walking towards Ray's porch with a face that looked like he was going to quit his job right after dropping off the box. Ray couldn’t believe what he was seeing. He was getting a package! A large one at that. Whatever was in that box, it would pull Ray out of this perpetuating boredom. The mailman threw the box in front of the door of the house, rang the doorbell, and turned around all in one motion, beginning to walk towards his van. “Who is it, Rey?” His mom said in an incurious tone. “I told you the mailman is here and he dropped a big white box!” the boy yelled while maneuvering like an acrobat to the front door. She peeked into the living room to see why he was making so much noise. When she saw him hop from one coach to the other almost halfway to the door, she gave out a yelp. “Rey! Don't you jump around like a monkey on the coaches. I have told you million times not to do that.” The boy paused in his tracks, still looking at the door. “Get down from there,” Mrs.Olive barked. He climbed down. Mrs.Olive wiped her hands off on her apron, leaving reddish orange streaks from the Tomato she was cutting. She calmly walked over to the door. 

<br />

Mrs.Olive was in her late 20’s at this point in her life. She had short black and white hair that reached up to the back of her neck. Her hair pulled back and held in place by her thin plastic headband. Her face was as plain and simple as a face could be, it did lack something. She had bulbous eyes that at the moment were covered by her half-closed eyelids as if she was ready to fall asleep at a moment’s notice. She wore a white T-shirt and grey shorts that went up to her shins. She wore the same outfit almost every day. She had 7 pairs of the exact same outfit, and every year, she would get 7 new pairs of that outfit. She would say it’s because they had imperfections and stains, but it's also because Mrs.Olive's waist grew a little bit each year. That's what happens when you get older as far as Ray could tell.

<br />

Mrs.Olive unlocked the door and gently opened it. She let her lips form a small smile when she saw the box. She looked over at Ray, still smiling. “Looks like you got a surprise.” She said weakly. Ray's eyes widened, and his teeth become visible from a mile away, smiling till his face hurt. As his mom dragged in the box, he thought to himself. “Am I dreaming?” I never got anything sent to me. More so, I never got a surprise in my life. It’s not my birthday, is it?" It definitely was not his birthday because if it were he would get the same thing every year. The same exact outfit. White button-up shirt and dark grey shorts. But this is different. This is a surprise. A box that can contain everything and anything. His mind was racing. He was in such a daydream that he didn’t notice his Mom had gone into the kitchen to get a knife. She slowly walked over to the box with the knife and began to carefully cut the tape that sealed the box. She opened the box and began to take out large pieces of filler paper. It seemed like it took hours for her to remove all of the filler. "It must have been something very fragile and important", he thought to himself. As his Mom reached in again to unearth whatever was in the box, her arm stopped suddenly, seeming to hit pay dirt. With one hand still in the box, she reached in with her other hand. It must have been heavy. Starting to take imagine what it could and could not be. With her face scrunched up, Mrs.Olive lifted the object out of the box using almost all of her force. The object was wrapped in a light brown parchment paper. She slowly walked over to the dinner table and set the large object on top of it. She took in a heavy breath and slowly let it out.

<br />

Ray was stuck to the floor beneath him, perplexed by the object on the table. he stared at it and didn’t realize his mom was calling him over to the table. “Rey, come over and open it.” He looked at his mother, her eyes giving him a reassuring feeling. He walked over to the object and climbed up onto one of the dinner table's chairs. The parchment paper covering the object was thick. He looked up at his mom, and she quipped, “Well, you don't have all day, do you?” He looked back down at the object, a rectangular piece of mass waiting to be unwrapped. He started at the edge and begin to claw at it. He cut an opening and stuck his finger through it. With his finger still in the hole, he swiped across the object. He tore the remaining parchment, eagerness and sheer curiosity crawled through his body like a virus. There were tiny pieces of parchment everywhere, which he pushed to the side with a swipe of his arm. At that time, He didn’t know he was looking at an object that he would come to hate more than anything in this world. An object that would make him feel empty with just the thought of it. Empty as if there was no purpose of life. At that time..., he saw a book. Its canvas texture was greyish blue with a dark grey leather binding. At that age, the book was half his size. A behemoth of a book. Up till then, Ray had only seen a couple of books. One was his mom's notebook, which was barely ever used. The other was a small phonebook that the city gave out. It only had about 10 pages in it.

<br />

Their were engraved letters written across the hardcover of the newly arrived book. Big silver foil serif letters each the size of an eyeball. He didn’t know how to read, but something about the letters did not look right. He looked over his shoulder and noticed his Mom was right behind him. The boy looked up at his mother,  her large circular eyes were beaming down at him. She was looking at him but not really looking at him, Her face, giving the expression of a memory just coming back to her. Half smiling, she whispered to him, “It's your Book of Education.” Ray looked back at the book. “What does it do?” He said with a bewildered tone. Mrs.Olive moved over to the side of the dining table and sat gently on the nearest chair. Her smile faded, and her face grew suddenly serious. She reached over to him and caressed his chin. She took a deep breath. “This book will teach you everything you need to know. It will teach you how to read, about the world's history, how to do math and about the stars in the sky. When I was your age, I got the same book in the mail. That's where I learned everything I know. Now, it’s your time to learn.” She stood up and walked back into the kitchen with an air of satisfaction. As if she just completed a milestone in her career of motherhood. Sitting in the chair, Ray felt more confused than he had in his entire life. He continued to look at the book, but now, instead of feeling eager and curious about the object, an uneasy feeling of dread filled his body. He should have destroyed that book right there and then, ripped the pages up into a tiny million eligible pieces, thrown it in the garbage disposal, and let the water take it down the drain so he would never see it again. But he didn’t know. He didn’t have any idea that he would come to loathe that book with every morsel of his soul.
