---
templateKey: blog-post
title: Our Meaning
date: '2018-08-14T16:52:24-07:00'
description: >-
  Ray loved his mother, but he did not like her. It is a hard thing to explain,
  but when a child is raised in such a manner that Ray was raised, then it is
  easy to understand.
tags:
  - book one
---
Ray loved his mother, but he did not like her. It is a hard thing to explain, but when a child is raised in such a manner that Ray was raised, then it is easy to understand. He didn’t blame his mom for doing what she did. It wasn’t like she was trying to kill him or anything like that. She was just trying to raise her child the best she could. Well, at least, the best way she thought she could. The Book of Education, or The Book, was the book given to all children of Mondane when they came of age. Even Ray’s Mom, Mrs. Olive, was home schooled using The Book. The day after Ray received his Book of Education, his mother began the education of the five-year-old. The first lesson was titled, unimaginatively, How to Read. The Book’s stark white sheets of paper were so incredibly thin, such that if the book were to be left open, a gust of wind could rip a sheet right off. Ray began his lessons with eagerness, ready to learn as much as he could. He has always been quite curious, even for his age. He often peppered his mother with questions about life outside of his town. He wondered why his mom hardly lets him go outside. Why they rarely traveled farther than their mailbox down the street. Why nobody in town talked to one another. Where he and all other children come from. His mother's explanation for the latter was simple, but not anything close to what Ray wanted to hear. “You will learn one day.”

One of Ray’s most eye-opening questions came one day after finishing using the restroom. “Why do I pee from the thing between my legs?” Ray asked with the innocence only a child could have. “Because you are a boy.” Mrs. Olive looked unsettled by the question, but answered it quickly, hoping the subject would switch just as quickly. “If I'm a boy, what are you, Mommy?” A chill went through Mrs. Olive's body. Her mind raced with the responses she could tell her son that would make him stop asking questions. It’s not that Mrs. Olive disliked questions, but she disliked questions that would give her son more information about his origins. She knew that these answers would spark the fire for even more questions. She looked down and closed her eyes, thinking about possible outcomes for each response she could give. For a moment, she thought if she just kept her eyes closed, the whole situation would go away. “Mommy, what are you?” Ray said, tugging on his mom's apron. Mrs. Olive opened her eyes, realizing this problem wasn’t some sort of nightmare that would go away easily. Her mouth opened, but the words weren’t coming out. She gave one last push of effort. “I’m a girl.” Ray looked at his mom with a blank stare. He was definitely prepping another question based on the look in his eyes. Ray, still sort of puzzled by the response, asked the only question he could think of. “Why are you a girl?” Disappointed with her attempt to stop the onslaught of questions, Mrs. Olive covered her mouth with her hand. She examined her son, as if she were trying to solve him. She crouched down and held his hands. “We are all born a certain way. I was born a girl. You were born a boy. That is just the way it is. Now, it’s time for bed. Go brush your teeth.” Ray frowned in contempt and walked towards the restroom. Mrs. Olive knew she was lucky to have escaped that battle, but the damage had been done. She knew she just laid the seeds for even more questions. Ray brushed his teeth just as he was told and climbed into bed. His mother kissed his forehead as she ceremoniously did every night before bed. Ray laid there in bed and just like his mother predicted, his mind was scattered with seeds of questions that were sprouting in his brain as he lay there looking at his ceiling. 

  “Sound it out, honey,” Mrs. Olive demanded, growing impatient by Ray's inability to say the word she was pointing to in The Book. “Ahhuugghddoooordy,” said Ray evidently struggling to stay a word he had never seen in his life. “Authority” said Mrs. Olive with a quickness that Ray hadn’t seen his Mom speak, ever. “Audority” Ray said, his face squinching on one side. “Honey, you are not pronouncing the th correctly. Try it again, thugh thugh thugh. Authority.” “Authority,” Ray said it quickly this time all while staring directly at his mother with a fierce gaze. Mrs. Olive slightly startled, proceeded to slowly pull her head back without realizing. She looked down at The Book and snapped back into reality. Looking back at her son, she shook her head slightly and gave a small nervous smile to Ray. “V-very good, honey. Umm… let’s proceed, shall we?” This was not the first time Mrs. Olive has been disturbed by her son. Since Ray was a newborn, he has had a tendency to suddenly change his demeanor at a moment's notice. Whether that be calm to angry or angry to joyful, his frequent mood flips have given Mrs. Olive a feeling of uneasiness. Every time this would happen, she would tend to stare at the boy as if realizing a truth that was hidden away.

Day after day, Mrs. Olive would sit her son down on the dining room table and teach him. From 8:00 am to 7:00 pm, Ray was inundated with teaching and assignments that had no end. He learned how to read pretty quickly, but even though he finished a complete section of the book, there were still thousands of pages left in the monstrosity of a book. Ray was eager, to say the least, to start the next section of The Book. Mrs. Olive, on the other hand, was quite nervous, for her son was about to begin the section called, Our Meaning. Ray tried many times to skip ahead to this section, once he learned how to read, but his mother always kept a watchful eye on him and prohibited him from doing so. Mrs. Olive knew what this section entails as she too learned it when she was a child. Knowing its contents, she hoped it would answer so many of Ray’s question about life that she was outright ignoring. She hoped for this, but she did not know if it was possible to satisfy Ray’s thirst for knowledge. She herself did not imagine that her son would grow to be as inquisitive as he had become. Her worst fear would be for her son not to be satisfied with what he was about to learn. For him to not accept it. Nevertheless, she hoped that this would bring some resemblance of peace to her son’s curiosity. 

Ray woke up early, to begin the new section of The Book. As soon as his eyes opened that morning, he jumped out of bed and changed out of his light blue pinstripe pajamas. Usually, his Mother had to force him to change out of his pajamas and into his buttoned-up shirt and dark grey shorts. This day was different though, this was the day Ray had been anticipating for quite some time. He ran over to his mother's room all while shouting “Mom! Wake up! Wake Up! Wake Up!” Mrs. Olive woke up startled, looking around her barely furnished room. “What happened!” Gasping for air as if she were just saved from drowning. “Mom, get up! It’s time to start my lesson!” Mrs. Olive crouched down and put her hands on her knees looking defeated. “Ray, you scared the life out of me. Don’t ever do that again!” “But Mom…” Ray whined. “It's time to start my lesson.” Mrs. Olive, finally calming down, said “Ok, honey. Let me get ready, and I will make us some breakfast.” “Mom, I’m not hungry,” Ray whined again, this time ending with a groan. Mrs. Olive looked at her son with her big saucer-sized eyes. “You need to eat. Go to the dinner table. I will be there in 5 minutes.” Ray turned around and stomped out of the room.

Mrs. Olive began making the breakfast she always made for Ray. Two scrambled eggs and a cup of oatmeal. Ray hated oatmeal, but as soon as his mother served him his breakfast, he began inhaling the grey lumps of oatmeal as if he had been starved. Ray left the plate of eggs and a bowl of oatmeal without a trace of food, not wanting to give his mother any excuses to prolong his lesson for the day. He picked up his plates, placed them in the sink, grabbed the stool in the white cupboard beneath the sink, and began washing his dishes. His mom was cleaning the stove, but stopped and stared at her son doing something she would have to plead him to do on any other day. He promptly finished cleaning his plates and walked out of the kitchen as if his mom was not there at all. His mother stood there half amused by what she just witnessed. She too walked out of the kitchen to see Ray sitting at the Dining Table with his hands clasped together. Ray was a curious, impatient boy, but above all else, he was smart. He knew what he had to do to get what he wanted. He wanted to start the new section of The Book, so he deployed the one thing he never had up until that point, patience. It worked. His mom stopped cleaning and fetched The Book from her closet. Ray smirked, realizing he just outsmarted his mother.

Mrs. Olive placed the book in front of Ray. His hands and feet moving frantically as he could not control the emotions flowing through him. His mother opened the book and turned to the section, Our Meaning. Ray's eyes widened. Ray was ready to learn His meaning. His reason for being here. He was going to have questions answered. The questions his mom never answered. He was going to learn why everything in his life up until this point has fallen off. Why things never seemed quite right in this tiny town where no one interacts with each other. Why he stays home all the time. All these questions will be answered, he thought. Yet even though all his questions were about to be answered, what he did not expect was to feel even more confused and lost than he already was.

Our Meaning

The world can be a cruel place. It is filled with lies, hate, and sadness. It has always been like this. Ever since Maxo, our god, left this earth millions of years ago. Since he left, the world and its people have been lost. Yet there is still hope. Maxo lives, and he lives within our great leader, Benith. Benith is Maxo's son, and he has come to bring order and happiness to the world. He brings with him a plan to save us and the rest of the world. We are the First. The First out of the selected few who have been chosen to live here in Mondane and become The First Pure People Of Maxo. We will be the model for what society will become, and with this, the world will restore order until Maxo returns.

These are our rules of order
All Children, including yourself, our children of Benith.

All Women shall tend to their Child until the age of 16. Nurturing, teaching, and raising these children to become pillars of our future societies.

At the age of 16, girls will enter Mothership Enrichment. A two-year course where they will learn how to raise their future children of Benith. At the age of 16, boys will enter Labor Enrichment. A two-year course where they will learn how to provide for all citizens of the world. They will be assigned to a Labor Division, based on their skills.

Never shall Women and Men interact. This is the fundamental key to sustain our society. Relations between Men and Women are the primary cause for the suffering of our past societies. With this eliminated, we will simplify our lives and remove the possibility of suffering.

At the age of 18, girls become Women and are ready to bring a new child of Benith into this world. At the age of 18, boys will become Men and are ready to provide for our city and eventually for the world.

This cycle will repeat until Maxo arrives and he will reward us by making us, The First, the angels of Maxo. We will live in Joy.


Mrs. Olive was sitting across the table, listening to her son read out loud the very thing she was taught when she was his age. She looked at him, no she examined him, as he read every word of The Book. Trying to see his micro reactions to each word he read. Thinking about what he could be thinking about. Her head, inching closer and closer to him as if it were giving her a better glimpse to his mindstate. Ray sat there looking down at the book. Trying to process what he just read. For being a five year old, Ray was incredibly smart, but even for him, the heft of what he just read did not quite register. He began to reread silently to himself. His mother was growing more anxious by the second. “Child of Benith...” Ray murmured bewilderedly. “Maxo...” Ray looked up at his mother. “I don’t get it.” He stammered. Mrs. Olive looked down at her hands. Contemplating what else she could add to what her son just read. She was about to say something when Ray interrupts. “So this guy, Benith… I’m his child?” Mrs. Olive's face lost a little more color than it already lacked. “Yes, Hon-ney” Stuttering as she replied. “We are all children of Benith,” “And I am going to be here until I'm 16? And then what?” Ray's voice grew louder while cracking. Mrs. Olive stood up. “When you're 16, you will start your next step to becoming a man and learn how to contribute to this city,” Mrs. Olive said with the most reassuring voice she can muster. “So I will have to leave...” Ray's voice begins to tremble. Mrs. Olive felt the pain in her son's voice and frowned. “Oh, Honey, don’t you worry. You have a long time until then. We have to do our part for the city and the world. So it can be a better place. Even I left-” “I don’t want to leave!” Ray cried out, interrupting his mother mid-sentence. “None of this makes sense. You said one day I would learn the meaning of things. I don’t like this meaning.” Mrs. Olive went to caress Ray, but as soon as she motioned, he bolted out of his seat and ran towards his room. He closed the door and jumped into bed crying uncontrollably. How could it be? He thought. How is this Our Meaning? It doesn’t seem right.
